Chapter 1 Practice Questions
Q1. Which of the following are operators, and which are values?

*
'hello'
-88.8
-
/
+
5

Q2. Which of the following is a variable, and which is a string?

spam
'spam'

Q3. Name three data types.

Q4. What is an expression made up of? What do all expressions do?

Q5. This chapter introduced assignment statements, like spam = 10. What is the difference between an expression and a statement?

Q6. What does the variable bacon contain after the following code runs?

bacon = 20
bacon + 1

Q7. What should the following two expressions evaluate to?

'spam' + 'spamspam'
'spam' * 3

Q8. Why is eggs a valid variable name while 100 is invalid?

Q9. What three functions can be used to get the integer, floating-point number, or string version of a value?

Q10. Why does this expression cause an error? How can you fix it?

'I have eaten ' + 99 + ' burritos.'

Extra credit: Search online for the Python documentation for the len() function. It will be on a web page titled “Built-in Functions.” Skim the list of other functions Python has, look up what the round() function does, and experiment with it in the interactive shell.





# Chapter 1 Practice Question Answers
Q1. The operators are +, -, *, and /. The values are 'hello', -88.8, and 5.

Q2. The string is 'spam'; the variable is spam. Strings always start and end with quotes.

Q3. The three data types introduced in this chapter are integers, floating-point numbers, and strings.

Q4. An expression is a combination of values and operators. All expressions evaluate (that is, reduce) to a single value.

Q5. An expression evaluates to a single value. A statement does not.

Q6. The bacon variable is set to 20. The bacon + 1 expression does not reassign the value in bacon (that would need an assignment statement: bacon = bacon + 1).

Q7. Both expressions evaluate to the string 'spamspamspam'.

Q8. Variable names cannot begin with a number.

Q9. The int(), float(), and str() functions will evaluate to the integer, floating-point number, and string versions of the value passed to them.

Q10. The expression causes an error because 99 is an integer, and only strings can be concatenated to other strings with the + operator. The correct way is I have eaten ' + str(99) + ' burritos.'.